Our theme this month is Christian neutrality.
What it means, what it takes, and why we choose it.
What is your opinion?
Where do you stand?
Can one person make a difference in countering injustice?
When we hear people discussing political topics,
we might at first think their conversation is purely philosophical.
But when injustice threatens our loved ones,
it can seem personal.
We expect that people will be divided over political ideology.
Revelation, chapters 8 through 13, 4 told that in the last days,
government would be the burning issue among mankind,
and that people would feel pressured to take sides.
The question each of us needs to ask himself is,
how do I respond when people debate solutions to serious injustices?
As Christians, we're most interested in the example of Christ.
If ever there was a person who could make a difference in countering injustice,
it was Jesus.
He felt deep compassion for people.
And with his abilities to feed the hungry, heal the sick,
raise the dead, and reach hearts with his winsome words,
Jesus could have exerted invincible influence in the realm of politics.
He certainly had the opportunity to do so.
Satan was pleased to offer him all the kingdoms of the inhabited earth
in an exchange for one active worship.
But Jesus wouldn't accept it.
Neither did he assert that Satan had no authority to make such an offer.
Later, Jesus' own countrymen tried to make him king.
But he rejected that too.
Later still, someone asked him whether it was lawful to pay taxes to the Roman government.
Again, Jesus didn't take sides.
He refused to become a world ruler, a national leader, or a political activist.
Did that mean that Jesus didn't care that he had no opinion?
Did the contrary?
Jesus cared more deeply than we can fathom.
And by treating people fairly, Jesus promoted justice at the most fundamental level.
Still, his principle focus was on teaching people about the kingdom of God
which would eliminate injustice for all time.
So what did Jesus indicate should be our position regarding human governments?
We learn from Jesus' response to the question about Roman taxation
as recorded at Mark 12 verses 15 through 17.
Bring me a denarius to look at.
They brought one.
And he said to them,
whose image and inscription is this?
They said to him, Caesars.
Jesus then said,
pay back Caesar's things to Caesar,
but God's things to God.
What are Caesar's things?
At Romans chapter 13 verses 1 through 7,
the Apostle Paul lists tax, tribute, fear, and honor.
Notice, too, that Jesus said to pay back Caesar's things.
What does that imply?
That Caesar, the ruling authority of the day,
had issued valuable things.
Coins, for example,
thus Caesar had the right to ask for some of those coins back.
This enabled the state to continue rendering necessary services.
Jesus acknowledged that.
On the other hand, our most valuable possessions
are grants from God Himself.
Such gifts as our heart,
our life, our mind, and our strength.
We can't give those things back to Caesar
because Caesar didn't grant them to us in the first place.
We rightly give those things back to God
in the form of our dedication and our love.
Regarding our love for God,
Jesus said at Mark chapter 12 and verse 30.
You must love Jehovah your God with your whole heart
and with your whole soul and with your whole mind
and with your whole strength.
So the love we give back to God is total.
No bodily part, function, capacity, or desire being left out.
Those who love God take the side of Jesus,
whom Jehovah has appointed as King.
But how would Jesus' disciples defend his kingdom
when people opposed it?
We gain insight from events that occurred
on the last night of Jesus' life on Earth.
Recall from Matthew chapter 26
that when a large crowd with swords and clubs
came to arrest Jesus,
Peter drew his sword and struck the slave
of the high priest taking off his ear.
John reports that the slave's name was Malkus.
Luke adds that Jesus touched the man's ear
and healed him.
Imagine that.
Jesus bore no ill will toward the men
taking him into custody.
Further, according to Matthew chapter 26 verse 52,
Jesus told Peter,
return your sword to its place,
for all those who take up the sword
will perish by the sword.
Why did Jesus disapprove of Peter's brave act?
For the same reason that he had avoided
the political process all the way up to that point?
Jesus explained this when he appeared
before Pontius Pilate later that night.
At John chapter 18 verse 36,
we read,
My kingdom is no part of this world.
Yes, because Jesus' kingdom is not of human origin,
it doesn't need human defenses.
How can we be sure that this is what Jesus meant?
Look closely at the rest of John chapter 18 verse 36.
If my kingdom were part of this world,
my attendance would have fought
that I should not be handed over to the Jews,
but as it is, my kingdom is not from this source.
So as Christians,
what is our position where political matters are concerned?
We are neutral.
Sometimes people misunderstand this few point.
Some have concluded that because we don't promote
one human government,
that we must be promoting another human government.
In the 1950s,
now the Republic of Congo,
authorities falsely accused Jehovah's Witnesses
of being communists.
But during the 1970s,
when Congo adopted a communist form of government,
the new authorities found fault with us
for not being communists.
Today, however, and for nearly three decades,
Jehovah's Witnesses have enjoyed legal status
in the Republic of Congo.
And whereas some have perceived our Christian neutrality
as sheer apathy,
others construe our position as a threat.
Let's address both of these viewpoints.
First, there is a big difference between Christian neutrality
and apathy.
Apathy is defined as a lack of interest,
enthusiasm or concern.
But we certainly don't lack interest in people,
nor are we insensitive to their feelings,
like Jesus we strive to alleviate people's suffering
by helping them in practical ways,
while teaching them about the only kingdom
that can eliminate injustice.
By teaching people from God's word,
we endeavor to change hearts,
not political institutions.
We feel this approach is realistic
because mankind's main problems are not political,
but moral.
But why can it be said that Jehovah's Witnesses
are not a threat,
but rather an asset?
We conscientiously obey the laws.
We support our communities through volunteer service
or compulsory civilian service where that exists,
and we pay our taxes.
It's true we don't vote for political parties or candidates,
but neither do we disrupt elections
or interfere with those who choose to vote.
It's true we don't lobby, campaign,
or run for government office,
but neither do we criticize those in power,
undermine their policies,
or demonstrate for political change.
It's true we won't salute a flag,
but neither will we burn a flag,
spit on a flag,
or disparage the nation that a flag represents,
even in lands where these are considered
protected expressions of freedom.
It's true we don't sing national anthems,
but neither do we discourage others from singing,
nor do we make a public spectacle of not singing.
We simply don't participate.
It's true we wouldn't kill people in war,
but neither would we attack people at home.
So while we don't promote any political position,
neither do we condemn any political position,
even in our heart.
That is what neutrality means.
We don't take sides.
But what if the demands of the state
can flicked with the commands of Jesus?
There's a Bible principle for that.
Are you thinking of what it says at Acts chapter 5
verses 28 and 29,
that we must obey God as ruler rather than men?
This is not disregard for the state,
but rather reverence for God.
If the state demands that we do what God forbids,
or refrain from doing what God commands,
then we believe God would consider that an invalid request.
Now one might say,
I can imagine some situations
where that viewpoint could get you into trouble.
Jesus foretold as much at Matthew chapter 24 verse 9,
where he said,
you will be hated by all the nations on account of my name.
More specifically at Revelation chapter 2 and verse 10,
Jesus said that some of his disciples
would be thrown into prison.
Not all of us, but some.
So we're not disappointed if we don't get thrown into prison,
but neither are we discouraged if we do.
Our minds turn to the thousands of brothers and sisters
who have been sentenced to prison over the years
for their Christian neutrality.
We are proud of them.
We pray for them.
We know that Jehovah is pleased with them.
Their endurance under trial spells victory for all of us.
How so?
To the congregation in Ephesus, Paul wrote,
I ask you not to give up on account of my tribulations
in your behalf for these mean glory for you.
Paul wrote these words while he himself
was under house arrest in Rome.
In what sense did Paul's tribulations mean glory for the Ephesians?
In that his perseverance in ministering despite trials
showed the congregation that the privileges they enjoyed
as Christians were of the highest importance.
If Paul had just given up, what would that have implied?
That their faith, their ministry, and their hope in God's kingdom
were not so valuable after all.
Instead, Paul's endurance exalted Christianity.
It demonstrated that remaining faithful is worth any sacrifice.
In like manner, the endurance of our dear brothers
and sisters in prison proves that their hope is alive
and that the kingdom they represent is real.
They have an identity as envoys, not of any human government,
but of the heavenly kingdom, a kingdom that will reward them
with everlasting life in a world without war.